WELCOME EVERYONE TO THE JUNE
28.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING.
I'M CANDICE PRIOR, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
THE GOAL OF APPEALS IS A NINE
PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
IDEIA NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX
FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES FOR THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL I AM HERE TO GRANT I
AM HERE DAVE DIVERSITY
DIVERSITY HERE CHRIS MADIGAN
GRACE WHITNEY HERE MCDANIEL
HERE ECKMANN CHRISTINA HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE BRIEFLY THAT THE
FIRST ITEM ON OUR AGENDA
TONIGHT PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE THREE
ON WINDEMERE DRIVE HAS BEEN
POSTPONED AT THE REQUEST OF THE
APPLICANT.
SO THAT WILL BE COMING BACK AT
A FUTURE MEETING IF THERE IS
ANYONE THAT WAS HERE FOR THAT
PETITION WE CAN TAKE YOUR
COMMENT BECAUSE IT WAS PUBLIC
NOTICE.
HOWEVER, WE WON'T BE HEARING
ANY PRESENTATIONS OR MAKING A
DECISION ON THIS CASE TODAY.
SO YOU'RE WELCOME TO COME BACK
AND SPEAK WHEN THAT COMES
BEFORE US.
AND THEN WITH REGARD TO ITEM
ZIBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO ONE SEVEN AND YOUR HEELS
DRIVE I WILL NEED TO RECUSE
MYSELF ON THAT ITEM SO TODD
WILL BE TAKING OVER AT THAT
POINT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS, QUESTIONS,
CONCERNS ABOUT THE AGENDA IF
NOT DO HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA.
THANK YOU.
MY SUPPORT SECOND THANK YOU
GUYS ALL IN FAVOR I OPPOSED ALL
RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE MAY.
TWENTY FOURTH ZIBA MEETING ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
CORRECTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE
MINUTES FROM IF NOT DRIVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES.
THANK YOU TO SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS IF
THERE IS ANYONE HERE PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO ONE THREE THREE SEVEN TWO
ZERO WINDEMERE DRIVE WE CAN
TAKE THAT COMMENT NOW THEY
DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY CALLERS.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
WITH THAT WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITION'S MAY TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO ONE EIGHT
EIGHTEEN SEVENTEEN EBBITT
AVENUE JUMP.
THANK YOU.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY THEN
OUR SCHARY DANZY REPRESENTING
THE PROPERTY OWNERS IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF FOUR
FEET FIVE INCHES FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT EIGHTEEN POINT FIVE
ABORIGINAL ESTABLISHMENT
BUILDING LINE.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING TO
CONSTRUCT AN APPROXIMATE ONE
HUNDRED AND TEN SQUARE FOOT IN
THE DIMENSIONS BEING TWELVE AND
A HALF FEET WIDE BY EIGHT POINT
SEVENTY FIVE FEET IN DEPTH
ADDITION FOR A PRIMARY BEDROOM
TO THE WEST SIDE, THE EXISTING
RESIDENCE THE REQUIRED AVERAGE
FRONT SET BACK TWENTY NINE
POINT FIVE FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED ARE ONE D
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
THE CORNER OF ABBOTT AVENUE AND
GLENDALE DRIVE IN THE EBER
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE PROPERTY IS EAST OF THE
HILLSIDE MEMORY CARE.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT AND IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED FOUR SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THE ADDITIONAL ALLOW FOR A NEW
PRIMARY BEDROOM THAT WILL OPEN
TO A NEWLY REMODELED WALK IN
CLOSET, HALLWAY AND BATHROOM.
THE OWNERS ARE ALSO
CONSTRUCTING A SECOND FLOOR
ADDITION FOR ADDITIONAL
IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE NOT PART
OF THIS VARIANCE REQUEST AS THE
DORMI THE SET BACK
REQUIREMENTS.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S YOU'LL SEE
THAT THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
LOCATION MAP OR ZONING MAP AND
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
IN YELLOW AT THE CENTER OF YOUR
SCREEN AT THE CORNER OF ABBOT
IN GLENDALE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND THE PROPOSED EDITION WILL
BE RIGHT HERE ON THIS SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY HEADING TOWARDS
THE GLENDALE SIDE OF THE STREET
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND IT'S A LITTLE
DIFFICULT TO SEE ON YOUR
SCREENS BUT IT'S IN YOUR
PACKETS AS WELL.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LOWER RIGHT
CORNER YOU'LL SEE THE SITE PLAN
AND YOU SEE THE HATCHET AREA
OF THE PROPOSED ADDITION ON
THAT SIDE PROPERTY AND THAT'S
WHERE THE ONE HUNDRED TEN
SQUARE FOOT BEDROOM ADDITION IS
GOING TO BE AND YOU CAN SEE THE
FLOOR PLANS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED.
YOU SEE THE SECOND FLOOR PLAN
AND THEN THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN
IN THE LOWER LEFT CORNER AND
YOU SEE WHERE IT SAYS PRIMARY
BEDROOM.
I BELIEVE THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS.
YES.
THE PRIMARY BED AND THEN
THERE'S AN EXTENDED HALL IN A
WALK IN CLOSET IN A BATHROOM.
THE NEXT SLIDE ARE THE
ELEVATION DRAWINGS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND YOU CAN SEE THE WELL YOU
CAN SEE THE ADDITION ON YOUR
RIGHT RIGHT HERE WHERE I'M
CIRCLING IN THE ADDITION RIGHT
THERE ON THAT ELEVATION SIDE
AND THEN THAT'S LOOKING FROM
THE SIDE OF IT.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS MORE
OF THE PROPOSED ELEVATION WHICH
IS ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE AND
THIS ONE THIS IS THE THE BACK
SIDE OF THE BUILDING OF THE
STRUCTURE.
THE NEXT SLIDES ARE THE PHOTOS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION BY THE APPLICANT.
YOU CAN SEE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE SURVEY
STAKES AND THIS IS LOOKING DOWN
GLENELLA GLENDALE TOWARDS
JACKSON ROAD LOOKING AT THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY FROM THE
CORNER OF THE OF THE
INTERSECTION AND LOOKING AT THE
WHERE THE ADDITION IS GOING TO
BE WHERE THIS WINDOW IS COMING
OUT TOWARDS GLENDALE
.
JUST ANOTHER DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVE OF THE PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS THAT I TOOK IN MY
INSPECTION.
THIS IS THE FRONT FACADE OF THE
HOUSE LOOKING AT IT FROM ABBOT
AVENUE AND THEN THIS IS CLOSED
AND LOOK AT THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY WHERE THE ADDITIONS
BEING PROPOSED AND THIS
ELEVATION THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
GOING INTO THIS GARDEN AREA
MORE OF THE SAME.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE DETACHED
GARAGE ALONG ABBOT AND THAT'S
THE END OF MY PRESENTATION.
I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANKS, JOHN.
QUESTIONS MIKE JOHN, WHAT'S
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE
PROPERTY TO THE WEST IT'S THE
HILLSIDE MEMORY CARE CENTER
JUST ACROSS THE STREET AND THEN
THIS DECISION PROPOSED
ADDITIONS FOR THE PROPERTY TO
THE SOUTH.
LOOKS LIKE THEY HAVE A PORCH
THERE, RIGHT?
LIKE COVERED PORCH.
THAT'S CORRECT.
YES.
SO THIS HOW FAR IS IT GOING OUT
FROM THE CURRENT END OF THE
HOUSE?
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS IT'S
GOING TO PROJECT EIGHT POINT
SEVENTY FIVE FEET.
SO IF YOU'RE ON THAT PORCH
YOU'RE LOOKING NORTH.
ARE YOU THEN GOING TO SEE THIS
ADDITION NOT BE ABLE TO SEE UP
THE STREET?
YOU'LL STILL BE ABLE TO SEE THE
STREET.
THERE WON'T THERE WON'T BE
THEY
MAY HAVE A SLIGHT, VERY SLIGHT
IMPACT ON THE VIEWSHED BUT IT
WILL DO WHAT WE SAID
COMPLETELY.
IT WON'T BE BLOCKED OFF.
NO, IT WILL NOT BE A
SIGNIFICANT BLOCKAGE IN MY
OPINION.
OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN SO
WHAT'S THE NORMAL REQUIRED
FRONT SET BACK IN THIS ZONING
DISTRICT?
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD OF TWENTY
FIVE FEET AND THE AVERAGE IS
TWENTY NINE POINT FIVE SO WE'VE
GOT ANOTHER SITUATION WHERE
YOU'RE IT'S FURTHER BACK
BECAUSE OF THIS APPROACHING
CORRECT.
AND THE AVERAGING DOES THAT
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT WHERE THE
FRONT PORCH IS?
I MEAN BOTH OF THESE PROPERTIES
TO THE SOUTH LOOK LIKE THEY
EXTEND CLOSER TOWARDS
COLLINGDALE THAN THE CURRENT
EXISTING SIDE OF THAT HOUSE.
WHEN I LOOKED AT IT, THERE'S
ONE MORE PROPERTY.
OH, WHEN I WAS OUT THERE WITH
MY MEASUREMENTS AND WE TOOK
MEASUREMENTS NOW SO THE
ARCHITECT SAID THE AVERAGE CAME
OUT TO TWENTY NINE POINT FIVE
BUT THEN THE AND THE ZONING
CODE SET BACK IS TWENTY FIVE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THEY'RE WANTING TO GO FOUR
FEET FIVE INCHES INTO THAT
TWENTY FIVE FEET TO KNOCK TO
REDUCE IT DOWN TO SO THEY WANT
TO GO TO THE ESSENTIALLY TWENTY
FEET CORRECT.
ROUGHLY 20 FEET AND SOME INCHES
WHICH IS LIKE IS LIKE FOUR
POINT FOUR AND A HALF FEET
OF MORE THAN TWENTY FIVE FEET
SO THAT TWENTY ONE FEET ANSWERS
MY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MR AI
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE YOU
MAY MAKE YOUR PRESENTATION AT
THIS TIME PLEASE COME FORWARD.
I AM HEREBY OH YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
WHEN YOU'RE SURE I DON'T I'M
THE ARCHITECT AND I NEED TO
CORRECT JOHN INTO THE TWENTY
FIVE FOOT STEP.
WE ARE ONLY GOING INTO THAT
AVERAGE SET BACK UP TO THE
TWENTY FIVE WHAT'S BACK THERE
WILL BE A AN ENCROACHMENT INTO
THE TWENTY NINE RIGHT OR NOT
INTO THE TWENTY FIVE FOOT SO
THERE WILL STILL BE THE FULL
TWENTY FIVE OVER THE BACK NOT
TWENTY FEET JUST WANT TO MAKE A
CORRECTION.
THANK YOU FOR REVIEWING THIS
VARIOUS APPLICATION.
THE PROPERTY HAS TYPE PROPERTY
AND ZONING CONSTRAINTS
INCLUDING THE APPLICATION
OF THE AVERAGE ON THE ONE DAY
OF BEING GREATER THAN THE FRONT
YARD SET BACK A FLAT ON THE
SIDE YARD OF A CORNER LOT
EXISTING STRUCTURES FOR
BATHROOM IS ALSO TIGHTLY
CONSTRAINED BY ITS SIZE LAYOUT
AND ITS LOCATION AND TO THE
EAST OF THAT BATHROOM, A
STAIRWAY TO THE NORTH.
THIS IS INSIDE AN EXISTING
ACCESS TO THE STAIRWAY AND TO
THE SOUTH THE IMPOSES
CONSTRAINTS GOT CLOSE TO THE
DRIVEWAY OF THE NEXT HOUSE ON
WINDALE IN ORDER TO THE FROM
THE EXISTING BEDROOM WAS
PROPOSED TO EXTEND WEST VIA A
SMALL ADDITION SO IT'S NOT A
NEW BEDROOM, IT'S JUST AN
EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING
BEDROOM TO ALLOW THE EXTENSION
THE BATHROOM TO BE MORE
FUNCTIONAL AND ACCESSIBLE.
THE ADDITION WOULD EXTEND ONLY
FOUR FOOT FIVE INCHES INTO THE
AVERAGE FRONT STEP BACK THE
BATHROOM, THE ROOFLINES AND THE
SIMPLE DESIGN REFLECT THE
EXISTING HOME AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND BOTH OF THE
EXISTING OF THE CURRENT
NEIGHBORS ON THE ADJACENT
NEIGHBORS ON ABBOT AND ON WHEN
THEY ARE IN SUPPORT OF THE
VARIANCE AS ARE OTHER NEARBY
NEIGHBORS.
>> SO THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS I'M
HAPPY TO TAKE THEM.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
TODD.
YES, MISS DUNN.
I HOPE I DIDN'T PRONOUNCE YOUR
LAST NAME AND WHAT IS IT DONE
TANJI HAMZEH MODERN.
I UNDERSTAND FROM READING THE
WAY I INTERPRETING IT IS THAT
IN ORDER TO ALLOW A THREE FOOT
ENTRANCE INTO THE BATHROOM THE
RENOVATION NEEDS TO OCCUR
ASKING FOR NOT A THREE FOOT TO
TEN.
YEAH YEAH RIGHT.
WELL RIGHT NOW IT'S OBVIOUSLY
TWO FEET WHICH IS TOO SMALL FOR
MR YES TO DO THE NEW BATHROOM
WILL ALLOW A WHEELCHAIR ACCESS.
IT DOESN'T MEET THOSE CODES.
IT'S NOT A BARRIER FREE
BATHROOM.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
I GET CREDIT.
I JUST LIKE TO CONFIRM ONCE
AGAIN YOU'RE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE TO COME ONLY TO WHAT
THE ZONING CODE NORMALLY IN
THIS ZONING DISTRICT WOULD
ALLOW TWENTY FIVE FOOT SETBACK
THAT IS THERE'S A HARDSHIP HERE
BECAUSE OF THE AVERAGING
REQUIREMENT TO THE PROPERTY
WITH THE PROPERTIES TO THE
SOUTH CREATING A NEW SETBACK
OF TWENTY NINE POINT FIVE.
YOU'RE ONLY ASKING YOU TO GO TO
THAT TWENTY FIVE FOOT LINE.
YEAH, OK.
JUST WANTED TO RECONFIRM THAT.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION AT THIS TIME WE
WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING IF
ANYONE IS HERE IN PERSON THAT
WISHES TO SPEAK, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW ANYONE WHO'S
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND FUNCTION ON THE
WEBLINK.
>> YEAH, GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS CHRIS LUISITO AND I
AM ONE OF THE PROPERTY OWNERS
ALONG WITH MY WIFE AND I JUST
WANTED TO THANK THE BOARD FOR
LISTENING TO OUR PETITION FOR
THIS EXTENSION AND I JUST
WANTED TO REINFORCE ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES THAT WE FACED IN
DOING THIS RENOVATION IS THAT
WE FEEL LIKE WE'RE PART OF THE
COMMUNITY IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE'D LIKE TO STAY IN THAT PART
OF THE CHALLENGES THAT WE HAVE
FAMILY THAT USES THE WHEELCHAIR
AND CURRENTLY THE BATHROOM THAT
WE HAVE ISN'T ACCESSIBLE IN
THIS.
THIS WOULD SOLVE A BIG PROBLEM
FOR US AND IT WOULD MAKE THE
HOME LIVABLE FOR THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK JUST
ULTIMATELY WE'RE REALLY HAPPY
WITH WHERE WE'RE AT.
WE'D LOVE TO STAY THERE.
WE REALLY KIND OF INGRAINED
OURSELF IN THE FABRIC OF THE
COMMUNITY.
SO I JUST JUST WANTED TO SAY
THAT THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE FOUR
LETTERS OF SUPPORT REGARDING
THIS PETITION, ONE FROM THREE
ZERO THREE GLENDALE DRIVE ONE
FROM THREE ZERO NINE GLENDALE
ONE FROM ONE SEVEN ZERO EIGHT
FAIR STREET AND ONE FROM
EIGHTEEN FIFTEEN EBBITT AVENUE.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED DURING DISCUSSION DAVE,
I'M LOOKING AT OUR
DETERMINATION WORKSHEET AND IN
MY OPINION IT NEEDS ESSENTIALLY
ALL OF THE STANDARDS THAT WE'RE
ASKING PEOPLE REQUESTING
VARIANCES TO MEET THERE IS A
PRACTICAL DIFFICULT BECAUSE
OF THE CORNER LOT AND SETBACK
REQUIREMENT IN THIS AVERAGING
WITH THESE OTHER PROPERTIES
THEY'RE NOT ASKING TO GO ANY
FURTHER THAN WOULD NORMALLY BE
ALLOWED TO GO INTO THAT SET
BACK FROM GLENDALE EVEN THOUGH
THAT'S A SECOND ESSENTIALLY A
SECOND FRONT SET BACK THAT THEY
HAVE TO COMPLY WITH THEY ARE
ESSENTIALLY COMPLYING WITH THE
STRICT WHAT ZONING CODE WOULD
SAY ASK FOR WITH A LOT OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION THAT DOESN'T HAVE
TO MEET.
HE'S AVERAGING ISSUES.
SECONDLY, THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY IS SUBSTANTIALLY
MORE THAT THAT IS SUBSTANTIALLY
MORE THAN JUST INCONVENIENCE.
WE'RE IN THIS CASE WE'RE
ACTUALLY HELPING TO RE
CONSTRUCT AN ASPECT OF THE
HOUSE TO CREATE A BARRIER FREE
ACCESS TO THE BATHROOM TO ALLOW
FOR MORE HANDICAPPED ACCESS TO
THE BATHROOM.
SO THAT'S IN MY OPINION THE
SECOND STANDARD THE VARIANCE
WILL RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL
JUSTICE BEING DONE CONSIDERING
THE PUBLIC BENEFITS THAT ONE
PUBLIC BENEFIT IS IN MAKING
HOUSING MORE BARRIER FREE AND
MORE ACCESSIBLE TO PEOPLE WITH
HANDICAPS.
ADDITIONALLY, I NOTE THE
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT FOR THIS
FROM NEIGHBORS MOST IMPORTANT I
REFER TO STANDARD FIVE SHALL BE
THE MINIMUM VARIANCE THAT WILL
MAKE POSSIBLE REASONABLE USE
OF THE LAND OR STRUCTURE AND IN
THIS CASE ASKING TO GO TO THAT
TWENTY FIVE FOOT LINE NOT ANY
FURTHER NOT ENCROACHING CLOSER
TO THE STREET IS IN MY OPINION
A MINIMUM REQUEST AND I'VE SEEN
REQUESTS COME IN ASKING FOR
MUCH MORE THAN THIS.
IT'LL BE EASY FOR ME TO SUPPORT
THIS GIVEN THE FACT THAT THEY
MEET STANDARDS, ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION, DO ANY PROMOTION
I'LL MAKE BUT THEY JUST
REQUESTED I WILL NOT TRY TO
BUILD TOO MUCH ON DAVE'S A
STUDENT THERE WHICH I LARGELY
AGREE WITH THAT WHERE THIS
PROPERTY IS ACROSS THE STREET
THERE'S NOT A BUNCH OF HOUSES
AND THAT'S THE DIRECTION THIS
IS GOING THE ADDITION AND THEN
THE HOUSE TO THE SOUTH THAT WE
HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM
AND THAT WAS THE HOUSE I WAS
WORRIED ABOUT WITH OUR VIEW
GETTING CONSTRICTED A BIT OFF
OF THEIR PORCH BUT THEY SEEM TO
BE THEY ARE IN SUPPORT OF THIS
AS WELL.
SO I'M GOING TO BE VOTING FOR
IT.
I'LL MAKE A MOTION OF THE
CHAIRS READY.
I THINK WE'RE READY.
THANKS, DAVE.
ZEBA TWENTY
THREE DAY ACTUALLY
OR ZERO ONE EIGHT EIGHTEEN
SEVENTEEN ABBOTT AVENUE BASED
ON THE FOLLOWING FINANCE AND
HAS HAS SPOKEN IN THE ARGUMENT
AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS FOR
FOOT FIVE INCH VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT EIGHTEEN
POINT FIVE AVERAGING AN
ESTABLISHED FRONT BUILDING A
LINE TO CONSTRUCT A ONE HUNDRED
TEN SQUARE FOOT TWELVE POINT
FIVE FEET BY EIGHT POINT
SEVENTY FIVE FEET ADDITION TO
THE WEST SIDE OF THE RESIDENCE.
THE REQUIRED AVERAGE HEIGHT SET
IS TWENTY NINE POINT FIVE FEET.
THE VARIANCE REDUCES THAT
SETBACK TO TWENTY FIVE FEET.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU GRACE DEPARTED.
YES KRISTINA.
YES TED YES YES YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
YES THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING ON TO PETITION QUBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
SEVEN FORTY EIGHT GLACIER HILLS
DRIVE I'M GOING TO STEP OUT AND
TODD CAN TAKE OVER FROM HERE
.
TODD WE MAY WANT TO POINT OUT
TO THE APPLICANT WITH THAT
RECUSAL WE ONLY HAVE FIVE
PEOPLE HERE SO THERE'S NO
UNANIMOUS VOTE REGARDING THAT.
SO YOU MAY NOT WANT TO MENTION
THAT AND LET THEM MAKE SURE
THEY UNDERSTAND.
YEP, YEP, YEP.
THANK YOU
.
DO YOU WANT TO RULE THE DICE
FEELING LIKE YOU
AND THEY ARE
OK?
YES.
YEAH.
UNDERSTAND WHERE I TO BE OK
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT SO TURNING YOUR
ENTIRE GRANT AND VICE CHAIR AND
TURNING TO ZIBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO ONE SEVEN FOUR
ZERO EIGHT ZERO GLACIER HILL'S
DRIVE THE GLACIER HILL'S
NURSING HOME THE COMPLEX AND
THE STAFF REPORTS
.
SO ALEXIS DELIO, STAFF PLANNER
WILL BE PRESENTING THIS HEARING
THIS EVENING AND I JUST WANT TO
MAKE IT CLEAR FOR THE RECORD
THAT I DID CONVEY TO THE
APPLICANT THAT SINCE WE DO ONLY
HAVE FIVE BOARD MEMBERS RIGHT
NOW, THEY HAVE TO HAVE FIVE IN
THE MAJORITY TO HAVE THEIR
VARIANCE APPROVED
.
THANK YOU.
MORNING BOARD OF APPEAL AND
STILL A CITY PLANNER.
I WAS COORDINATING THE STATE
PLAN PART OF THIS PROJECT THIS
IS ADVENTURED APPLICATION
TWENTY THREE THAT'S ZERO ZERO
ONE SEVEN FOUR FOUR FIVE.
THIS IS GOING TO HAVE MEANING
IN SUMMARY THIS THE VARIANCE
FROM THE OUTDOOR LIGHTING
STANDARD SECTION FIVE TWENTY
FIVE THREE EIGHT AND IT'S
REQUESTED FROM THE COLOR
RENDERING INDEX RELATED COLOR
TEMPERATURE THRESHOLDS.
THIS IS IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE
STATE PLAN FOR PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT OR GO
OBJECT THAT HAS TWENTY EIGHT
CARS TOTAL ON THIRTY TWO ACRE
SITE ZONED R FOR B PER SECTION
FIVE TWENTY FIVE TO EIGHT ALL
PERMANENT MULTIPLE LIGHTING
INSTALLATIONS SHALL HAVE A
MINIMUM COLOR RENDERING INDEX
OR C R.I OF SEVENTY AND A
QUARTERLY COLOR TEMPERATURE OR
C GREATER THAN THREE THOUSAND K
IS A SENIOR LIVING COMMUNITY AS
THIRTY TWO WORKERS ON THE EAST
SIDE OF ER HARD ROAD SOUTH
OF TWENTY THREE WAS ORIGINALLY
APPROVED AND DEVELOPED IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY TWO AND
SEVERAL ADDITIONS OVER THE
YEARS THE THE MOST RECENT
APPLICATION FOR THEM CAME IN
LATE TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND THAT
WAS FOR GARAGE BUILDINGS I
BELIEVE ABOUT THE EARLY TWO
THOUSANDS WAS THE MOST RECENT
FLIGHT PLAN FOR ADDITIONAL
DWELLING UNITS OR SECTION FIVE.
TWENTY FIVE OUTDOOR LIGHTING
WAS AMENDED IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE WITH NEW STANDARDS TO
MINIMIZE ADVERSE AND UNSAFE
IMPACTS OF LIGHTING, PROTECT
THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT FROM
ARTIFICIAL LIGHT AT NIGHT,
PROMOTE ENERGY AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND FOSTER A SAFER
ENVIRONMENT THAT SUPPORTS AND
OR ENHANCES COMMERCE AND LAWFUL
NIGHTTIME ACTIVITIES.
>> THE SECTION PROVIDES
EXTERIOR LIGHTING
SPECIFICATIONS IT SPECIFIES FOR
COLOR SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT AND
REPAIR REPAIR.
I CAN'T SAY THE DESIGN AND
INSTALLATION ARE SPECIFICALLY
SECTION FIVE TWENTY FIVE THREE
HAS A PART A COLOR SPECTRUM
MANAGEMENT WITH THE SEE OUR EYE
AND STANDARD IN SECTION MEET
WHICH HAS LUMINAIRES ROOM WHICH
LIGHTING FIXTURE DESIGN AND
INSTALLATION STANDARDS THAT
REQUIRE IN SUMMARY AND ADDRESS
LIKE TRESPASS ON THE PROPERTY
LINE CAUSING BELAYER BEING
FULLY SHIELDED FULLY SHIELDED
FROM LIGHTING THE GROUND OR
HORIZONTAL TARGETS BEING
PARTIALLY SHIELDED WHEN
LIGHTING ABOVE GREATER VERTICAL
TARGETS STANDARDS WELL
ILLUMINATED BUILDING FACADES
STANDARDS FOR DECORATIVE AND
LANDSCAPED ILLUMINATIONS AND
TIME FRAMES NOT BEING NOT
ACTIVATING MOTION ACTIVATED
SYSTEMS NOT BEING TRIGGERED BY
OFFSITE MOVEMENT.
THERE ARE STANDARDS FOR UNDER
CANOPY LIGHTING AS WELL AS WELL
AND COLD MOUNTAIN LIGHTNING
LIGHTNING AND CERTAIN
DYNAMICALLY CHANGING IS
PROHIBITED.
THE EXISTING FIXTURES AT
REGINALD'S VARY WIDELY AND THEY
REFLECT WHAT WAS MOST POPULAR
OR MOST EFFICIENT STATED THAT
AT THE TIME THEY WERE INSTALLED
BUT THEY HAVE BEEN INSTALLED
BETWEEN NINETEEN SEVENTY TWO
AND PRESENT THE EXISTING ALONG
THE MAIN ROAD AND THE LIGHTING
SHOULD BE INSTALLED WITH THE
NEW GARAGES WILL COMPLY WITH
THE CURRENT STANDARDS AND THE
NEW LED LIGHT SOURCES MAINTAIN
THE COLOR SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT
SPECIFICALLY AND ALL OF THE
LIGHTING DESIGN ALTHOUGH ANY
FIXTURES AT ALL.
TWENTY FIVE THREE HOWEVER A
VARIANCE IS REQUESTED FROM FIVE
TWENTY FIVE THREE EIGHT WHICH
IS THE CMC AND CROI FOR
EXISTING LIGHTING THAT IS
ATTACHED OR ADJACENT TO
BUILDINGS AT GLACIER HILLS AND
AGAIN DOES REPEAT THE NEW BRAND
NEW LIGHTING ASSOCIATED WITH
THE PROPOSED GARAGES WILL
COMPLY WITH THE CURRENT
STANDARDS.
THEY WILL ALSO WORK NECESSARY
TO UPGRADE THE LIGHTING AROUND
THEIR MAIN RING ROAD AND THAT
WILL COMPLY WITH THE NEW
STANDARDS.
BUT THEY ARE ASKING A VARIANCE
SO THAT SOME OF THE EXISTING
LIGHTING THAT ASSOCIATED WITH
THE EXISTING BUILDINGS ON THE
BUILDINGS OR ADJACENT TO THEM
THERE CAN GET THOSE REMAIN
NON-COMPLIANT WITH GO THROUGH
THE STATUS OF APPROVAL FOR
VARIANCES AND INCLUDES THE
APPLICANT'S STATEMENT FOR THE
FIRE THE VARIANCE OF STANDARDS
TO MY COLLEAGUE MR BARRETT TO
RUN THROUGH A PRESENTATION TO
DIRECT YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS.
I'M HAPPY TO CHIME IN IF I CAN
AND THEN AT THE CONCLUSION I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS.
THANKS.
SO THE FIRST MAP IS THE ZONING
MAP AND YOU SEE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IN THE CENTER YOUR
SCREEN HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW
THAT'S US.
TWENTY THREE TO THE EAST AND
THIS IS THE LOCATION MAP
SHOWING EXISTING CONDITIONS AND
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND THIS
JUST A ZOOMED IN FOR ALL OF THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND YOU SEE
THE PROPERTY IN ITS CURRENT
STATE.
>> NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE PLAN
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND ALSO SURVEY
THIS IS A SITE MAP OF THE
EXISTING PROPERTY ALONG WITH
THE LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED
EAST GARAGES PROJECT THE FOUR
GARAGES I BELIEVE THAT'S
CORRECT.
>> AND THIS IS THE MAP THAT
SHOWS THE LIGHT IN GREEN ON
YOUR AND YOU SEE THEM ON THE
OUTER PERIMETER OF THE
PROPERTY, THE RING ROAD AND I
BELIEVE THERE'S THIRTY THREE
TOTAL AND I'M GETTING THE
AFFIRMATIVE IN THAT SO
I
BELIEVE THE APPLICANT IS
CHOOSING TO BRING THOSE THIRTY
THREE LIGHTS UP TO CODE ALONG
WITH THE LIGHTS FOR THE GARAGE
PROJECT.
>> JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE A
MAP OF THE CURRENT CONDITIONS
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY AND
THESE ARE SOME OF THE PHOTOS
OF THE PROPERTY YOU SEE THE
ENTRANCE ALONG EARHART ROAD AND
YOU SEE THE ENTRANCE TO THE
MAIN BUILDING OF THE PROPERTY
AND I BELIEVE THAT'S ALL WE
HAVE AS A STAFF AND AT THIS
TIME WE WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
OF STAFF FROM THE MEMBERS.
DAVE, THANK YOU.
I SEE I'M ACTUALLY PRETTY
FAMILIAR WITH THIS BECAUSE MY
MOTHER IN LAW SPENT THE LAST
THREE YEARS OF HER LIFE HERE
THE OR ANY OF THE OTHER
PARKING.
SO WE'RE THERE DOING THE RING
ROAD UP TO CURRENT STANDARDS
BUT THEY'RE NOT MAKING ANY
CHANGES IN ANY OF THE PARKING
LOT LIGHTS, IS THAT CORRECT?
I COULD ASK THE APPLICANT FOR
THAT IF WE CAN ASK THE
APPLICANT.
BUT AT THIS TIME I'VE BEEN
INFORMED THAT IT'S THE THIRTY
THREE RING LIGHTS, THE
PERIMETER LIGHTS THAT WILL BE
BROUGHT UP TO CODE ALONG WITH
THE LIGHTS THAT ARE PART OF THE
GARAGE PROJECT AND NOTHING
ELSE.
OK, THANK YOU.
I HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS WHETHER
JOHN OR MISS DUILIO YOU CAN
ANSWER THEM SO REGARDING THE
LIGHTS THAT ARE NOT PART OF THE
CURRENT THAT ARE NOT PART
THE PERIMETER AND LOOKING AT
THE REPORT ATTACHED TO THE
PACKAGE APPEARS THAT SOME
OF THEM IN FACT ARE CONFORMING
BECAUSE THEY BLOCK UPWARD
REFLECTING LIGHT AND THEY ARE
BELOW OR AT THE THREE THOUSAND
FOR THE CORRELATED COLOR TEMP.
ISN'T THAT CORRECT?
TO SAY IT MORE CLEARLY JUST
BECAUSE IT'S NOT IN THE
PERIMETER ALL THE OTHER LIGHTS
AREN'T NECESSARILY
NONCONFORMING SOME ARE AND SOME
ARE NOT CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT.
OK, SO MY INTEREST IN TRYING TO
GET THROUGH THE TECHNICAL PARTS
OF SIERRA AND CCTV BECAUSE THIS
AREA IS OF COURSE HAS ELDERLY
FOLKS.
PEOPLE ARE NOT VERY MOBILE
PEOPLE I DON'T SEE VERY WELL
MAYBE THEY NEED CATARACT
SURGERY ET CETERA.
THE THE REPORT FROM THE
APPLICANT IS THAT SOME OF THE
LIGHTS HAVE A CCTV OF AROUND
FIVE THOUSAND K AND MY QUESTION
IS IF THAT GETS REDUCED TO
THREE THOUSAND K IS IT WORSE OR
BETTER FOR SENIORS OR DOESN'T
IT MATTER OR ARE WE JUST SAVING
ENERGY AND SCREWING SENIORS BY
LOWERING THE LIGHT THE LIGHT IS
FIVE THOUSAND K BETTER.
WHAT'S THE ANSWER TO THIS.
I AM NOT I'M NOT I'M NOT A
WRITING EXPERT.
I WONDER IF THE APPLICANT OR
CAN EXPLAIN BETTER OF ALL THE
AT DOING A BIT OF IMMEDIATE
RESEARCH OK SO MY UNDERSTANDING
AND I THINK YOU ADDRESS THE
MAIN REASON FOR THE TWO
THOUSAND ONE AMENDMENTS WAS TO
YOU KNOW PUSH AN ARBITRARY DARK
SKY.
BUT YOU WOULD HAVE TO AGREE
WITH ME THAT ARBOR'S NEVER EVER
GOING TO BE DARK SKY.
I MEAN YOU CAN'T YOU CAN'T SEE
ANY STARS HERE.
WHEN I WANT TO SEE STARS I GO
BACKPACKING IN THE ROCKIES AND
LOOKING OUT HERE.
I CAN WALK AROUND WITHOUT A
HEADLAMP BECAUSE THERE'S SO
MUCH LIGHT.
SO THIS REALLY ISN'T GOING TO
SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT THE ANN
ARBOR IN TERMS OF BEING DARK
SKY.
YOU WOULD HAVE TO AGREE WITH
THAT.
YES, WELL I THINK WHAT ABOUT
AND I DO HAVE A PERSONAL ANSWER
FOR YOUR FIRST QUESTION I DON'T
THINK THE INTENTION OF DARK SKY
IS NECESSARILY SO THAT NO PITCH
BLACK I THINK IT HAS MORE TO DO
WITH UPWARD GO THAT BELOW THE
LEVEL OF THE LIGHTING IT IS
ILLUMINATED BUT IF SAY YOU ARE
IN AN AIRPLANE ABOVE THEN IT
WOULD BE DARK FROM THE FOR
BIRDS AND OTHER NOCTURNAL FOR
FOLLOWING UP ON THAT I HAVE TWO
MORE QUESTIONS.
THIS IS RIGHT ALONG THIS TWEET
SORRY I CUT YOU OFF.
I APOLOGIZE.
GO AHEAD.
WELL BUT I HAVE SOME A LITTLE
TIDBIT FOR YOU.
A THREE THOUSAND ELEVEN WILL
PRODUCE A SOFT WHITE OR WARM
WHITE OR YELLOWISH COLOR LIGHT
BULB PRODUCES A BRIGHT DAYLIGHT
KIND OF COLOR.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT THE KEY
IMPACTS THE LEVEL
OF ILLUMINATION PUT CANDLES
BACK IN THE WARMTH OF COLOR.
WHAT LITTLE RESEARCH I DID I
UNDERSTAND THE FIVE THOUSAND K
IS CLOSER TO DAYLIGHT WHICH IS
ABOUT SIXTY FIVE HUNDRED K IN
THE THREE THOUSAND IS FARTHER
AWAY FROM THAT BUT GLACIER
HILLS IS CLOSE TO US TWENTY
THREE SO THERE'S OBVIOUSLY A
LOT OF UPWARD LIGHT AND I GO BY
THERE NOT INFREQUENTLY ON MY
RECUMBENT BICYCLE AND I NOTICE
THERE IS A LARGE MCMANSION JUST
DOWN THE ROAD THAT'S GOING TO
ADD MORE LIGHT IN THAT PART
OF THE CITY RIGHT.
>> WELL I'LL TAKE YOUR WORD ON
IT ON NEARBY DEVELOPMENT I WILL
TELL YOU THAT THESE STANDARDS
APPLY TO ALL MINING IN THE CITY
SO THEY SHOULD ALSO APPLY TO
ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION OR ANY
TIME THAT LIGHTING FIXTURE IS
RETROFITTED OK OR EVEN FOR
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES GET IN MY
LAST QUESTION BUT I THINK I
KNOW THE ANSWER BUT TO HEAR
ARTICULATED IS IT'S THE SITE
PLAN TRIGGER THAT BECAUSE
THEY'RE BUILDING THESE
BUILDINGS THEY HAVE TO BRING
NORMALLY THE REST OF THE SITE
UP TO COMPLIANCE.
THAT'S WHY THEY'RE IN FRONT
OF US.
CORRECT?
>> YES, THAT IS MOSTLY THE
REASON THE LIGHTING ORDINANCE
APPLIED APPLIED IMMEDIATELY TO
ALL LIGHT FIXTURES IN THE CITY
OF APPLIED IMMEDIATELY TO LIGHT
FIXTURES.
>> NOW WE DO NOT HAVE THE STAFF
OR THE ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM TO
START GOING AROUND KNOCKING ON
EVERY SINGLE ADDRESS IN THE
CITY, LETTING PEOPLE KNOW THEY
NEED UPDATED LIGHTING.
>> BUT WHEN IT COMES BACK FOR
US OR A BUILDING PERMIT OR
ANYTHING OF THAT SORT WHEN A
PIPELINE COMES BEFORE US WE
CANNOT APPROVE IT KNOWING THAT
IT'S OUT OF COMPLIANCE.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE PLANS
ARE TO GET MORE COMPLIANCE AND
WHY EVERY SINGLE PERSON BUT I
CAN TELL YOU THE WEBSITE PLANS
ARE SUBMIT THEY CANNOT BE
APPROVED UNLESS THEY ARE IN
FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CODE OR HAVE A VARIANCE FROM
THE CODE .
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR THOROUGH
ANSWERS.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE NO MORE QUESTIONS.
DOES ANYBODY ELSE ALL RIGHT.
>> THE APPLICANT AND OF COURSE
IDENTIFY HER NAME AND ON THAT
FIVE MINUTES I HAVE DISCOVERED
THAT SO I'M WITH MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING WHERE THE CIVIL
ENGINEERS PUT TOGETHER A SITE
PLAN.
WE PUT TOGETHER JUST ABOUT
EVERY SITE PLANNED FOR
AMENDMENT AT GLACIER HILLS OVER
THE YEARS AS ALEXIS NOTED, THE
REASON FOR THE SITE PLAN THEY
WOULD LIKE TO BUILD FOR ATTACH
DETACHED GARAGES TO OFFER
INDOOR GARAGE SPACE FOR SOME
OF THE RESIDENTS CURRENTLY THEY
OFFER CARPORTS BUT I DON'T
THINK I HAVE TO GO INTO THE
VIRTUES OF A COMPLETELY
ENCLOSED GARAGE SPACE.
I THINK EVERYBODY IN MICHIGAN
UNDERSTANDS THAT I NOTICED I
DID NOT NOTICE THAT YOU GUYS
GOT THE PACKAGE SHOWING THE
LOCATION OF THE LIGHTS.
EVERYBODY COMFORTABLE KNOWING
WHERE THE LIGHTS ARE GOING TO
BE REPLACED.
OK, I'M SURE YOU GUYS REMEMBER
WE WERE HERE LIKE TWO MONTHS
AGO AT THAT TIME I HEARD PEOPLE
SAY THAT YES, I UNDERSTAND YOU
CAN'T MEET THE THE REQUIREMENTS
IN THE AND THE UDC FOR
PROVIDING A PHOTOMETRIC PLAN
BUT YOU HAVEN'T ATTEMPTED TO
COMPROMISE AT ALL.
WE'RE ASKING FOR WHAT WE'RE
ASKING FOR IS A VARIANCE TO
PROVIDE FOR THE METRIC PLAN.
I WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR.
WE DON'T WE'RE NOT SAYING THAT
OUR LIGHTS ARE OUT
OF COMPLIANCE OUT THERE.
THEY JUST CAN'T BE MEASURED IN
TODAY'S METRICS BECAUSE THEY
ARE OLD INCANDESCENT BULBS AND
THE METRICS AT THE TIME THEY
WERE ALL PROVED AT ONE TIME OR
ANOTHER AS THEY WENT THROUGH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
WE JUST CAN'T CONVERT
INCANDESCENT LIGHTS TO THESE
METRICS THAT ARE MEASURED
TODAY.
THE TECHNOLOGY JUST DOESN'T
EXIST.
SO AS A AS A COMPROMISE
, WHAT
WE ARE SUGGESTING IS THAT WE
ARE GOING TO REPLACE THAT
THERE'S HARMONY AND SYMMETRY
AND COMPLETENESS ABOUT WHAT WE
CHOSE.
IT'S THE RING ROAD.
IT'S NOT THE PARKING LOT YOU
DON'T WANT TO GO.
WE'VE ALL EXPERIMENTED WITH LCD
BULBS AND YOU KNOW WE'VE PUT
THEM IN SOME PLACE LIKE THAT
DOESN'T WORK.
AND SO IF YOU MAKE THESE ARE
CONSISTENT AND REPLACE WITH
CURRENT COMPLIANT MEASURABLE
FIXTURES, IT'LL IT'LL FLOW
NICELY.
IT'LL LOOK GOOD.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT WE DECIDED
TO DO AND ONCE AGAIN WE'RE
SAYING THAT THESE ARE OUT
OF COMPLIANCE RIGHT NOW BUT
WE'RE JUST OFFERING THAT UP AS
SOME SORT OF A COMPROMISE HERE
BECAUSE WE CAN'T SHOW COMPLETE
COMPLIANCE EVERYWHERE AND FOR
THE MOST PART WHAT WE DECIDED
TO DO IS WE KEPT THE SENIORS
PARKING LOTS WHAT THEY ARE
BECAUSE NOBODY'S COMPLAINING
ABOUT THEM BEING TOO DARK.
AND AS FAR AS I KNOW, THIS IS
THE SECOND TIME THIS HAS BEEN
UP FOR A PUBLIC HEARING.
YOU HAVEN'T GOTTEN ANY LETTERS
FROM ANYBODY COMPLAINING ABOUT
THE STATE OFF SITE.
IT PRODUCES TOO MUCH LIGHT AND
I ASSUME EVERYBODY WITHIN A
THOUSAND FEET OR FIVE HUNDRED
FEET WAS NOTIFIED OF THIS
PETITION.
SO APPARENTLY THERE'S NO
THERE'S NO NEIGHBORHOOD
OPPOSITION OR UPRISING ABOUT
THIS IS TO BLAME
.
SO THE FACILITY IS HAPPY WITH
WHAT THEY HAVE RIGHT NOW.
THEY'RE CONFIDENT THAT THE
LIGHTS THEY PUT IN ARE NOT
WHERE THEY HAVE A HIGH
INTENSITY OF USE IN THE PARKING
LOT.
IT'S MOSTLY COMMUTING AROUND
THERE AND SO THEY WERE HAPPY TO
OBLIGE IN THAT MANNER.
JOHN SAID WE'RE REPLACING
THIRTY THREE FIXTURES AND WE
CHOSE THE MOST PREVALENT ONES
THAT PROBABLY PRODUCE COMBINED
THE MOST LIKE THE PEOPLE SEE
ANYBODY DRIVING BY WOULD SEE
THE A LOT OF THE PARKING LOTS
INTERIOR TO THIS.
SOME ARE HIDDEN BY BUILDINGS,
OTHERS ARE UP AGAINST THE
EXPRESSWAY.
SO WE THOUGHT THIS WAS THIS WAS
A GOOD FAITH GESTURE TO TRY TO
MEET THE INTENT OF THE
ORDINANCE WAS SOMETHING THAT WE
JUST TECHNICALLY CAN'T ACHIEVE
AT THIS POINT.
IT'S MORE THAN HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS ANY QUESTIONS,
DAVE, TO YOU SAID ALL THESE
GREEN LIGHTS AROUND HERE YOU'RE
NOT JUST REPLACING THE LIGHTS
BUT THE FIXTURES.
NO REPLACING THEY HAVE
REPLACEABLE BOB AND WE'RE
REPLACING THE CURRENTLY
COMPLIANT ONE AND THEN AND ONCE
AGAIN THAT'S THE OLD ONES ARE
NOT COMPLY BUT WHEN THEY CAN BE
VERIFIED NOW I KNOW AT MY HOME
I HAVE FEWER AND FEWER BUT
STILL A HANDFUL OF INCANDESCENT
BULBS AND AS THEY THEY DON'T
LAST FOREVER NO SAY AND THEN I
REPLACE THEM WITH LEDS I TRY TO
WITH LEDS IF I CAN FIND
SOMETHING SOME OF THEM ARE I
HAD AN ARCHITECT THAT DID A
REMOTE DESIGN TO REMODEL AND
PUT SOME LIGHTS THAT YOU JUST
CAN'T EASILY FIND LED BULBS TO
GO IN THOSE PARTICULAR LIGHT
FIXTURES.
BUT AS THESE LIGHT BULBS AGE
AND NEED TO BE REPLACED, IS
THERE ANY SORT OF PLAN THE
FACILITY HAS IN PLACE TO PHASE
IN COMPLIANT LIGHTING?
JUST ASKING IF THERE IS A
POLICY THAT MIGHT BE ABLE TO BE
IN PLACE THAT WE COULD BE
ASSURED COMPLIANCE WILL COME IN
IN THE NEAR FUTURE FIXTURES
OTHER THE ONES WE HAVE SHOWN
CORRECT FOR FIXTURES THROUGHOUT
THE FACILITY WE ACTUALLY
HAVEN'T HAD THAT DISCUSSION.
BUT GIVEN THE FACT THAT YOU CAN
ONLY BUY LEIDY ONES, I'M SURE
THEY WOULD AGREE TO TO BE
COMPLIANT IN THE FUTURE.
AND YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN BROUGHT
UP THAT IT ALSO HAS TO HAS TO
SUIT THE NEED TO I MEAN WE
CAN'T MAKE IT SO DOCTOR, PEOPLE
ARE TRIPPING OUT THERE.
SO I MEAN THERE HAS TO BE A
LITTLE COMMON SENSE.
BUT ONCE AGAIN TO
ADVERTISEMENTS NOBODY'S
COMPLAINED ABOUT GLARING LIGHTS
.
SO I'M ASSUMING THAT I'M NOT AN
EXPERT.
I WAS OUT THERE ONCE JUST A
LITTLE AFTER DUSK.
IT DIDN'T SEEM VERY BRIGHT TO
ME.
SO IT WASN'T LIKE A CAR
DEALERSHIP THAT LIT UP
OFTENTIMES FOR SAFETY REASONS
AND PROTECTION FROM THEFT.
SO GRIEF'S I WAS JUST WONDERING
IF YOU WOULD BE MAYBE AMENABLE
TO IF WE ADDED SOME KIND
OF CONDITION REQUIRING FIXTURES
TO BE UPDATED AS THEY NEED
REPLACING I MEAN I'M ASSUMING
YOU PROBABLY WOULD HAVE TO DO
THAT ANYWAYS BUT YEAH, I'M WELL
I GUARANTEE IF THEY GO TO
ANOTHER PLAN IT'S GOING TO GO
ONE STEP FURTHER.
SO I THERE'D BE ANY
DISAGREEMENT IN THAT DAYS.
ONE MORE QUESTION THAT'S REALLY
OFF THIS TOPIC.
ARE YOU PROVIDING AT THIS POINT
ANY ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
STATIONS ON YOUR SITE?
DO YOU KNOW IF THEY'RE DOING
THAT?
NO, I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
IS THAT SOMETHING IN THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT WOULD BE
AWARE, JOHN, JUST CURIOUS.
I KNOW IT'S IRRELEVANT IN TERMS
OF LIKE THIS.
WE'VE HAD SO MANY ELECTRIC
VEHICLE VARIANCES COME BEFORE A
CHARGING STATION THAT I'M JUST
ASKING WHAT THE STATUS IS ON
THE SITE.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT RELEVANT
WHETHER I VOTE FOR OR AGAINST A
LEXUS.
IS THIS ADMINISTRATIVE
AMENDMENT, THIS SITE PLAN
CHANGE REQUIRING ANY STATIONS
CHARGING STATIONS FOR THIS?
IT IS ONLY GOING TO GO I THINK
SOME OF THEM HAVE TO SOME
OF THEM HAVE EVIDENCE DON'T
CHARGE AND AND THE REST WILL
HAVE THAT THE ELECTRICAL CHARGE
IS ONLY FEATURE CHARGERS BUT
THE EXISTING SPACES, NEW
BUILDINGS THAT HAVE TO BE
RETROFITTED.
DOES THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
?
IT DOES.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THE NEW GARAGES
WILL HAVE SOME EV CHARGING
CAPACITY LIKE HAVE SOME EV
READY AND SOME EV CAPABLE YEAH.
WITCHETTY INSTALLED EV CAPABLE
NOW RIGHT.
YES.
YOU READY.
IS THAT NOT A THING.
EVEN SO I WANT TO THANK THE
PEOPLE FOR DOING THAT WITH THIS
NEW CONSTRUCTION.
WELL I HAVE SOME QUESTIONS I
GUESS I ALWAYS HAVE QUESTIONS
SO ANSWER THE ONES THAT YOU
FIRST QUESTION THE ONES THAT
YOU CAN'T MEASURE THOUGH ISN'T
THE BURDEN ON YOU TO SHOW
COMPLIANCE SO THE CITY COULD
VERY WELL SAY IF YOU CAN'T
MEASURE IT, RIP IT OUT AND PUT
IN THE NEW ONE.
RIGHT.
ISN'T THAT GOING TO HAPPEN?
WELL, SO THE EXISTING ONES THEN
ONCE AGAIN I'M NOT SAYING THAT
THEY'RE COMPLIANT.
THEY WERE COMPLY THEY WERE
COMPLIANT TO THE INCANDESCENCE
STANDARDS WHEN THEY WENT IN.
BUT I MEAN TODAY'S STANDARDS
YEAH.
SO THEY CAN'T SHOW THEY MEET IT
.
YOU HAVE TO REPLACE IT.
WHAT IF YOU CAN'T IF YOUR
CLIENT CAN'T SHOWS THAT IT
MEETS THE CURRENT STANDARD
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
REPLACE THE LIGHT RIGHT WITHOUT
THE VARIANCE THAT'S WHERE VON
LOOKING ALL RIGHT.
I MEAN THAT COULD BE SAID FOR
THE ENTIRETY OF THE SITE I
SUPPOSE.
RIGHT.
I'M SO I KNOW I ASKED YOU THIS
QUESTION ON APRIL 26 WHEN YOU
WERE HERE BEFORE AND YOUR
CLIENT HADN'T GIVEN YOU THE
INFORMATION.
ONE OF OUR CRITERIA IS A
PRACTICAL HARDSHIP AND YES,
YOU'RE HAVING DIFFICULTY
MEASURING BUT THE OTHER ONE
OF COURSE IS JUST MONEY.
I MEAN IF IF DOING THIS IS LESS
THAN THE COST OF BLUE PADS FOR
A YEAR AT THE NURSING HOME,
IT'S PROBABLY NO BIG DEAL.
BUT IF IT'S OVER A MILLION
BUCKS THAT MIGHT, YOU KNOW,
CRIMP THINGS A LITTLE AS YOUR
CLIENT GIVING YOU ANY
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
DIFFERENTIAL COSTING OF THE
PERIMETER AND THEN IF YOU'RE
FORCED TO DO THE WHOLE THING,
DO YOU HAVE ANY COSTS FIGURES
AT ALL?
>> I DON'T HAVE A COST FIGURE
FOR THAT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
DIFFERENTIAL COST WOULD BE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY THEY
HAVE TAKEN AN INVENTORY
OF EVERY LIGHT FIXTURE THAT
THEY HAVE.
BUT I MEAN THERE'S GOT TO BE
HUNDREDS AND HUNDREDS OF THEM.
>> I JUST FIND IT AMAZING.
I MEAN THEY'RE HERE AND THEY
WANT US TO ADDRESS THIS.
IT SEEMED TO ME HOW MUCH THE
THING IS GOING TO COST WOULD BE
A BIG ISSUE.
BUT YOU HAVE TO CONSIDER THE
THE REMAINING FIXTURES ARE
MINOR COMPARED TO THE FIXTURES
THAT LINE THE RING ROAD.
I MEAN THAT'S THAT'S DIFFERENT
WHEN YOU SEE THE SITE THAT'S
THE HALO THAT YOU SEE AROUND
THE SITE.
THE LITTLE COACH LIGHTS BACK
DOORS AND EVERYTHING REALLY YOU
KNOW, YOU DON'T SEE AS MUCH.
SO THAT'S WHY THEY ELECTED TO
DO WHAT THEY DID.
I THINK THAT'S THAT'S A GOOD
EXPLANATION.
THANK YOU, LES.
THIS QUESTION IS SOME OF THE
LIGHTS ACCORDING TO THE REPORT
FROM MR POWELL'S ARE INDICATE
THAT SOME OF THE LIGHTS ARE AT
5000 K IF YOU'RE FORCED TO GO
DOWN TO THREE THOUSAND K IS
THAT BETTER OR WORSE FOR OLDER
PEOPLE?
I MEAN DO YOU HAVE ANY SENSE
OF PEOPLE THAT CAN'T SEE WELL
WELL I'M GOING TO GUESS THAT
IT'S GOING TO PRODUCE LESS
LIGHT.
I MEAN IT'S GOING TO BE WORSE
THAN I WOULD SUSPECT.
SO YES, I'D BE THERE I SUSPECT
WOULDN'T HAVE AS MUCH LIGHT IS
THAT AS THE OTHER ONES NOW THE
EXISTING FIXTURES IN THE RING
ROAD THEY ARE NOT JUST OUT IN
THE OPEN, THEY'RE IN A GLOBE
AND THE GLOBE IS A ABOUT THE
COLOR OF THE BACKDROP BEHIND
YOU ARE MINDIOLA COLOR SO THAT
SOFTENS THE FIVE THOUSAND K
LIGHT.
SO I MEAN MY GUESS IS THEY'RE
GOING TO PROBABLY INSTALL THE
THE THREE THOUSAND ONES AND
MAKE SURE THAT IT'S SAFE.
IF NOT THEN THE INSTALLED
DIFFERENT GLOWS BUT IT'S ONE
OF THESE THINGS THAT THEY'VE
GOT THEY'VE GOT THEY'VE GOT TO
GET THEIR FEET WET AND SEE WHAT
WHAT IT'S LIKE HERE SO OK WELL
THE OTHER PART IS IS WHAT'S
GOOD.
MOST OF THIS IS IS DRIVING
TRAFFIC SO THAT'S WHY THEY KEPT
THAT'S WHY THEY KEPT THE
PARKING LOTS IN THE DOOR
ENTRIES AROUND ANY KIND OF THEY
DON'T HAVE A LOT OF STEPS OUT
THERE I'M GUESSING.
BUT ANY KIND OF ENTRY STOOPS
ARE ALL REMAINING THE SAME.
SO YOUR FOOT NO FOOT TRAFFIC
ALONG THE LITTLE I MEAN
ESPECIALLY IN THE EVENING I
MEAN NOT THAT MANY PEOPLE ARE
WALKING AT DARK AROUND THE RING
ROAD.
THEY MAY BE VISITING AND COMING
AND GOING TO THE PARKING LOT
MORE COMMONLY THAN THEY ARE
WALKING AROUND THE RING.
WELL, THAT'S WHERE THEY ARE IN
A PARKING LOT AND OUTSIDE
OF THE RING THAT STAFF SO
PRESUMABLY A LITTLE MORE
CAPABLE.
THANK THANK YOU, SIR.
I HAD EXHAUSTED MY QUESTIONS MY
QUESTIONS COS ANYBODY ELSE TO
COME UP WITH MORE QUESTIONS
THOUGH IS THE IS THERE ANYBODY
IN THE AUDIENCE?
THERE IS NO ONE HERE.
NOBODY IS IS THERE ANYBODY
CALLING IN?
HOW DO YOU TREAT HOW YOU'LL BE
PROMOTED TO THE MEETING?
MA'AM, YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
I ACTUALLY DO HAVE ANSWERS TO
THE SAFETY QUESTIONS AND SO
WILL BE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY
BACK UP IN WEST TEXAS.
SNAKES ARE A HUGE PROBLEM IF
YOU STEP ON A RATTLESNAKE THAT
IS THE END OF YOUR FOOT SO THE
OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY ON SITE
OUT IN THE BOONIES WHERE
THEY'RE FRACKING HAS FOR SAFETY
PURPOSES THEY'RE LIGHTING
BRIGHTNESS LEVELS ARE CAPPED AT
THREE THOUSAND KELVIN BECAUSE
IF YOU'RE FOR EXAMPLE, YOU
WATCH A MOVIE, YOU STEP OUTSIDE
,YOUR EYES ARE SUDDENLY
BOMBARDED BY BRIGHT LIGHT AND
YOUR PUPILS SHRINK AND THOSE
THAT'S A VERY DRAMATIC CHANGE
FOR YOUR EYES TO COMPREHEND AND
YOUR BODY IS NOT THAT GREAT BUT
THE INVERSE FROM GOING FROM THE
OUTSIDE WORLD INTO A PITCH LIKE
MOVIE THEATER IS THE EXACT
SAME.
SO FOR SAFETY PURPOSES THE OIL
AND GAS INDUSTRY HAVE
DETERMINED ANYTHING BRIGHTER
THAN THREE THOUSAND KELVIN
ACTUALLY INCREASES THE ODDS
THAT THE SNAKES WILL GET
STEPPED ON BECAUSE IT CAUSES
SHADOWS TO BE SO HARSH.
BUT YOU CAN'T SEE WHAT'S IN
THEM BECAUSE YOU ARE TOO BRIGHT
AT THE SPACE AND YOUR EYES ARE
TRYING TO ADAPT TO THAT
BRIGHTER TOBACCO DECIDED TO
TRUDEL, RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
I AM VERY MUCH INVOLVED WITH
WASHTENAW SAFE PASSAGE WHICH IS
A RESEARCH BRANCH OF WASHTENAW
OTTERMAN.
I AM ALSO HEAVILY INVOLVED WITH
DETROIT AUDOBON DETROIT SAFE
PASSAGE THE BIRD CENTER
OF MICHIGAN AND I AM ON THE
CONSERVATION COMMITTEE FOR THE
BLACK SWAMP BIRD OBSERVATORY.
SO YES THIS IS DEVOTED TO BIRD
CONSERVATION BUT MY OTHER LOVE
IS MOTH'S SO YEAH GREAT NIGHT
AND COLD WATER ARE EXTREMELY
WILDLIFE YEAR-ROUND BATS AS
WELL.
I DO I GUESS THIRD MONTH SO
THEY'RE BEING IN DIRE STRAITS
IS CAUSE TO ADJUST THIS BUT
MIGRATE INTO HUMAN HEALTH
ASPECTS.
IT'S IT'S PRETTY ALARMING THAT
THE SHIFT IS SO MUCH EMPHASIZED
IN TERMS OF BRIGHTNESS.
I'M NOT ACTUALLY LOOKING AT
WHAT COLOR TEMPERATURE DOES IN
GOOD WAYS LIKE THE PHOTOGRAPHY
BACTERIUM'S AMBER LIGHT IS
THERE FOR A REASON.
IT LETS US SEE THINGS WITHOUT
BEING IN TOO MUCH DANGER.
SO YEAH, THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
CENTS I JUST WANTED TO SAY I'M
SUPER EXCITED THAT ALL OF THE
PERIMETER LIGHTS ARE GOING TO
BE REPLACED BUT ACTUALLY FOR
SAFETY PURPOSES THEY'RE
REMAINING WHERE RESIDENTS ARE
GOING TO BE WALKING.
IF YOU CAN'T TELL WHAT'S A
SHADOWBOX THAT IS ACTUALLY A
SAFETY ISSUE FOR RESIDENTS NOT
TO MENTION WELL, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MR. DILLON.
THAT WAS ANY OF ANY OTHER
CALLERS CURTAINING
MISSOURI.
GLAD YOU'RE ON.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE HAVE YOUR LETTER.
THANK YOU.
>> WHICH I WILL REFERENCE
LATER.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, MY NAME IS SALIENTLY.
I'M A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
WARD FIVE AND THE COORDINATOR
OF MICHIGAN DARK SKIES AND WE
WERE A COMMUNITY GROUP
ADVOCATING FOR REDUCING LIGHT
POLLUTION.
WE HAVE ABOUT THREE HUNDRED
MEMBERS IN SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN
AND LIGHT POLLUTION POSES AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO NOCTURNAL
ECOSYSTEM.
IT'S INCREASING EXPONENTIALLY
AT A STAGGERING RATE OF 10
PERCENT PER YEAR AND IT ALSO
CAUSES SERIOUS HEALTH PROBLEMS
DUE TO SLEEP DISRUPTION.
AND THIS IS ESPECIALLY RELEVANT
TO THE COLOR TEMPERATURE SAFETY
PROBLEMS DUE TO GLARE AND
DESTROYING NIGHT VISION.
AS HEIDI TRUDEAU MENTIONED.
AND IT COUNTERACTS
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS.
WE ARE A ORDINANCE WAS
DEVELOPED IN COLLABORATION WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
ADDRESS EXACTLY THESE PROBLEMS.
THIS ISSUE WITH THE GLACIER
HILLS DEVELOPMENT IS BROUGHT TO
OUR ATTENTION THIS AFTERNOON BY
A CONCERNED NEIGHBOR ON EARHART
ROAD.
SO THAT IS SOMEONE IN THE
IMMEDIATE VICINITY AND THE
CHAIRS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION AND ENERGY
COMMISSION ARE UNABLE TO STAND
ON SUCH SHORT NOTICE BUT WOULD
LIKE ME TO CONVEY THEIR CONCERN
AS WELL.
I'D LIKE TO DRAW ATTENTION TO
SOME FACTUALLY INCORRECT
INFORMATION IN A PACKET THAT I
UNDERSTAND YOU JUST ALLUDED TO
MY EMAIL MUSTAFFA STATES THAT
CROI IN FACT ARE SPECIFICATIONS
UNIQUE TO LED LIGHTING AND THAT
THE TECHNOLOGY DOES NOT EXIST
TO DETERMINE COMPLIANCE.
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY INCORRECT.
THE THE COLOR TEMPERATURE CAN
BE EASILY APPROXIMATED BY
COMPARING THE COLOR OF THE
EMITTED LIGHT WITH A KNOWN
SOURCE AND THE RIGHT COLOR
TEMPERATURE IS JUST LOOKING AT
THE COLOR BASICALLY YOU WANT
THE COLOR TO BE
OCCASIONALLY
EVEN COMPLY WITH THE IS A BIT
TRICKIER.
YOU COULD CONSIDER A VARIANCE
ON THE CROI BUT NOT ON I WOULD
RECOMMEND AND LIGHTING
PROFESSIONAL COULD JUST GIVE
YOU A CERTIFICATION
OF REASONABLE COMPLIANCE ON
THESE.
BOTH OF THESE WAS A STATEMENT
UNDER THE STANDARDS OF PROVAL
AND B THAT A FAILURE TO GRANT
THE VARIANCE WOULD RESULT IN
THE ABILITY TO PROVIDE SAFETY
HYDATID TO DAVID JUST DISCUSS
THE SAFETY ASPECT.
I CAN SAY MORE ABOUT THAT IN
ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION.
BASICALLY LITERATURE OF STUDIES
HAS FAILED TO FIND ANY
SIGNIFICANT LINK BETWEEN
LIGHTING AND CRIME AND BLUER
COLORS ALSO CAN CAUSE MORE
SAFETY ISSUES AND HEALTH
PROBLEMS AND THIS IS AN ISSUE
ALSO FOR THE SENIOR CITIZENS
WHERE LIGHT CAN SCATTER INSIDE
THEIR EYES AND THAT'S WORSE FOR
BLUE LIGHT THAN RED LIGHT AND
THE LIGHTING EVALUATION BY A
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER FIVE D
STATES OF THE ORDINANCE SPECS
FOR UPWARD PARTIAL SHIELDING DO
NOT APPLY AND YET IN THE NEXT
ITEM THAT'S MY MEANING
EXCELLENT LIGHTS.
AND SO THESE ARE ALMOST ALWAYS
POINTED UPWARD.
SO IF THEY DO THEN THEY NEED TO
BE PARTIALLY SHIELDED AS PER
THE ORDINANCE AS WELL.
SO THE INTENTION OF THE
ORDINANCE IN PARTICULAR IS TO
BRING LARGE PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENTS INTO COMPLIANCE
WITH DARK SKY PRACTICES AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE.
AND SO THIS IS THIS CAN BE YOU
CAN MAKE AN ANALOGY WITH, FOR
EXAMPLE, SUSTAINABILITY AND SO
FORTH.
IT'S NOT A MATTER OF MAKING AN
OBVIOUS SKY BLACK BUT JUST
OF BEING IN COMPLIANCE WITH
GOOD DARK SKY PRACTICE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR TSOI?
OH NO.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
AMONG THE MEMBERS
MIKE.
YEAH.
SO THIS IS I MEAN THIS IS A
TOUGH ONE FOR ME AND THE
APPRECIATE THE RESPECT I
APPRECIATE THE PETITIONER'S
PERSPECTIVE ON ITS FACE.
THIS IS PROVING THINGS LIKE
REPLACING THESE LIGHTS THAT ARE
GETTING REPLACED.
BUT WE HAVE AN ORDINANCE
COUNCIL PASSED.
THEY COULD HAVE PASSED IT IN A
WAY THAT FOR THESE LARGE
DEVELOPMENTS GRANDFATHERED IN
THINGS THAT WEREN'T BEING
UPDATED OR CHANGED AND IT COULD
HAVE DONE ANY NUMBER OF WAYS
THEY CHOSE TO DO IT THE WAY
THEY DID.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE I AM
REALLY.
I HAVE TENSION HERE.
I IF I LOOK OUR CRITERIA
THERE'S NOTHING REALLY UNIQUE
ON THIS OTHER THAN IT HAS A LOT
OF LIGHT.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE EXPENSIVE.
SO THAT ISN'T TO ME TO I DON'T
KNOW IF IT'S IT'S PERSUADING ME
SO MAYBE ONE OF MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS WILL HAVE A
STRONG ARGUMENT THE OTHER WAY.
BUT I AM ON THE NON-APPROVED
SIDE OF THIS RIGHT NOW BUT
WOULD LOVE TO HEAR OTHER
PERSPECTIVES IF IF SOMEONE'S
FEELING PASSIONATE THE OTHER
WAY THEY'VE I'M REALLY TORN BY
THIS.
I SEE THE EFFORTS TO COMPROMISE
BY CHANGING THE LIGHTING AROUND
THE RING TO BRING IT ALL INTO
COMPLIANCE AS SIGNIFICANT AND
TO ME ARGUES FOR APPROVAL
OF THIS JUST BECAUSE IMPROVING
THE SITUATION AND TO ME WOULD
ESSENTIALLY HELP CREATE A
BENEFIT FOR THE COMMUNITY, A
SENSE OF JUSTICE BEING ON IN
TERMS OF GETTING DARKER SKIES.
>> THE I BUT I'M TORN IDEAS AND
THE CITY COUNCIL PLACES US IN A
TOUGH POSITION WHEN PEOPLE COME
IN THEY WANT TO PUT IN WHAT
THREE OR FOUR GARAGE IS ON ONE
END OF THIS LARGE DEVELOPMENT
AND THEY HAVE TO BRING
EVERYTHING INTO COMPLIANCE.
>> I'M TORN AND I'M INCLINED TO
VOTE YES FOR THIS BECAUSE I SEE
A BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY IN
ALLOWING THESE GARAGES WHICH
WILL HAVE CHARGERS WHICH IS
IRRELEVANT BUT MEETS ANOTHER
STANDARD THAT WE THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS PUT IN PLACE AND WE
HAVE GRAPPLED WITH BECAUSE
INITIALLY THEY WANTED THE
ENTIRE SITE TO BE COMPLIANT
WITH THAT AND THEY BACKED OFF A
LITTLE BIT ON END BUT MAYBE
THAT SOME SORT OF JUDICIOUS IN
SENSE OF REQUIREMENTS SHOULD BE
THOUGHT MORE FAVORABLY BY THE
CITY COUNCIL, BY THE POLICY
MAKERS.
I THINK I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR
THIS JUST BECAUSE IT IS AN
IMPROVED SITUATION AND I
RECOGNIZE THAT ONE VOTE AGAINST
THIS BECAUSE WE HAVE A RECUSAL
AND A COUPLE OF ABSENCES AND
VACANCY.
IT'S ONE VOTE NO.
WELL, I MEAN THIS IS DENIED BUT
I SEE ON THE PART OF THE
APPLICANT THE WILLINGNESS TO
COME FORWARD WITH SOME
IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE
BENEFICIAL TO THE COMMUNITY.
I WILL VOTE FOR THIS GRACE.
I KIND OF HAVE A QUESTION FOR
JOHN.
I THINK THIS IS YOU.
SO IF WE GRANTED AN APPROVAL,
COULD WE HAVE SOME KIND
OF CONDITION REQUIRING LIKE A
LIKE THAT LETTER OF REASONABLE
COMPLIANCE FROM AND FROM AN
ENGINEER JUST FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF THAT, THESE ARE
NOT SOMETHING THAT CAN BE
MEASURED AND WE'RE GIVING A
VARIANCE BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
ABLE TO MEASURE IT.
COULD WE REQUIRE THEM TO GET
SOME KIND
OF REASONABLE
COMPLIANCE OR SO WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING FOR IS TO PLACE A
CONDITION ON THE MOTION THAT
REQUIRES THEM TO GET A I'M NOT
SURE I HAVE.
YOU'RE SAYING YOU WANT YOU'RE
SAYING IN RESPONSE TO THE THE
LETTER THAT YOU RECEIVED TO
HAVE A CERTAIN TIME FRAME TO
BRING THE WHOLE SITE INTO
COMPLIANCE IN A COUPLE OF YEARS
OR OR IT OR THAT.
AND SO I UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY
THAT THE VARIANCE IS BECAUSE
NOT NECESSARILY BECAUSE IT'S
NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT BECAUSE
IT'S SOMETHING THAT'S DIFFICULT
OR NOT POSSIBLE TO BE MEASURED
.
SO FROM WHAT I'M GATHERING IS
THAT FROM WHAT THE APPLICANT IS
TELLING YOU IS THAT IT'S
DIFFICULT TO MEASURE BECAUSE
IT'S SUCH A LARGE INVENTORY IS
NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE.
YEAH, AND IT'S DATED FROM THE
SITE PLAN THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING REQUIRES THE WHOLE
SITE TO COME INTO COMPLIANCE.
THEY DON'T THE REQUEST NOT TO
HAVE TO MEET THAT STANDARD
BECAUSE IT'S SUCH A LARGE
INVENTORY AT THIS TIME.
SOME OF THE LIGHTS ON THE
INTERIOR ARE SAYING OUR I WANT
TO I'M NOT SURE IF I SAY
NEGLIGIBLE BUT THEY'RE JUST NOT
AS CAUSING AS MUCH GLARE MUCH
AS MUCH AS THESE RING LIGHTS
AND THIS IS KIND OF THEIR OLIVE
BRANCH TO THE SAY WE'RE GOING
TO WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
TO BRING THE THE LIGHTS OUT ARE
THE BIGGEST OFFENDERS INTO
COMPLIANCE.
AND SO I MEAN IF YOU WANT TO
CONDITION THE MOTION YOU CAN
ALSO CONDITION THE MOTION AS
WELL.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
SOMETHING OTHER PEOPLE ARE
MAYBE FAVORABLE TO WHAT WOULD
HAVE TO VOTE FIRST ON WHETHER
THE CONDITION WE HAVEN'T MADE A
MOTION YET SO WE COULD BUILD IT
INTO A MOTION.
I JUST REMEMBER THOUGH SO ANY
TIME THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
AN IMPROVEMENT ON THE SITE SAY
THREE, FOUR OR FIVE YEARS,
WHATEVER IT MAY WHEN THEY COME
ON AN ELECTRICIAN COMES TO THE
CITY TO APPLY FOR AN ELECTRICAL
PERMIT, THEY'LL HAVE TO BRING
THESE LIGHTS THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO CHANGE ALBURY UP TO CURRENT
CODE ANYWAY.
SO EVENTUALLY THEY SHOULD GET
CHANGED OUT TO THE CURRENT
CODE .
IT JUST DEPENDS ON HOW LONG
THESE THIS DEVELOPMENT'S BEEN
THERE FOR TWENTY PLUS YEARS AND
SOME OF THE FIXTURES MAY BE
OUTDATED AND THEN WHEN THEY DO
REPLACE THEM THEY'RE SUPPOSED
TO COME INTO COMPLIANCE WITH
THE CURRENT ELECTRICAL THAT
MEETS TODAY'S CODE OF OUTDOOR
LIGHTING CODES FIVE POINT
TWENTY FIVE MIGHT THE YOU THE
POINT I HEARD EARLIER ABOUT
LIKE THE CITY THIS IS PAST CITY
DOESN'T HAVE THE ABILITY TO
ENFORCE IT SO THE TIME TO
ACTUALLY ENFORCE IS WHEN PEOPLE
ARE COMING TO BUILD SOMETHING
NEW OR UPDATE SOMETHING LIKE
THAT AGAIN FOR ME I DON'T
PERSONALLY FEEL SUPER
PASSIONATE ABOUT THE ORDINANCE
BUT THAT'S NOT MY JOB LIKE YOU
GOT PAST AND IF THERE'S AN
ISSUE WITH THE ORDINANCE OTHER
THEN IT'S EXPENSIVE TO
IMPLEMENT.
THAT'S NOT ENOUGH FOR ME TO GO
AGAINST THE CRITERIA THAT I
THAT WE HAVE SO I'M STILL ON
THE NO SIDE OF THIS SO YES,
KRISTINA AND SIMON SUPPORT
OF THE OF THE APPLICATION I WAS
IN SUPPORT OF THIS TWO MONTHS
AGO AS WELL FOR A VARIATION
OF THE PROJECT THAT WAS PUT
TOWARDS US AS PRESENTED TO US.
THEY ARE A HUGE BENEFIT TO THE
COMMUNITY SINCE NINETEEN
SEVENTY TWO I MEAN IT CAME INTO
THAT COMMUNITY IT WAS I I
UNDERSTAND THAT IT WAS A HARD
SELL AT THAT TIME BECAUSE IT
WAS SO RESIDENTIAL BUT OVER THE
DECADES IT IS IS VERY
IMPRESSIVE HOW THEY HAVE WORKED
THE THIRTY TWO ACRE SITE TO
PROVIDE SUCH A WIDE VARIETY
OF CARE FOR SENIOR CITIZENS AND
I APPRECIATE WHAT THE APPLICANT
IS IS PRESENTING TO US TODAY.
I THINK IT IS A A VERY NICE
GESTURE TO TO PROVIDE A CLEAR
DELINEATION OF NEW LIGHTING
AROUND THE REALLY COMPLETE
PERIMETER OF THE SITE AND THEN
THERE'S A GOOD DISTINCTION WITH
THE SECOND TIER SECONDARY TIER
OF LIGHTING AND WHY THAT'S NOT
PART OF THIS APPLICATION.
SO I FEEL LIKE THAT'S VERY
LOGICAL FOR ME AND AGAIN THE
BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY I
THINK IS ENORMOUS AND SO I'M IN
STRONG SUPPORT OF THIS VARIANCE
.
SO I LIKE YOU.
CHRISTINE ALSO TO FAVORABLY FOR
THIS ON APRIL 26 THERE'S A
LITTLE YOU KNOW, I'M NOT
RUNNING I'M A LITTLE BIT ON THE
FENCE AND THERE'S NOT ANYTHING
TO DO WITH YOU, SIR, BUT YOUR
APPLICANT FAILED TO GIVE YOU
ANY COST FIGURES THAT JUST
BLOWS ME AWAY.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, FROM YOUR
PROFESSIONAL LIFE THAT PEOPLE
BID ON PUBLIC PROJECTS ALL THE
TIME WITHOUT SCHEMATICS,
WITHOUT HAVING FULL COST
FIGURES.
THE BOARD OF THIS PLACE HAD TO
HAVE LOOKED AT SOME COSTING.
YOU DECIDE WHETHER THIS WAS A
REASONABLE EXPENSE OR MONEY IN
REALIZING GOING THROUGH THE
SITE PLANNING PROCESS THEY'RE
LOOKING AT DIFFERENT OUTCOMES.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN REALLY NICE
HAD THEY SHARED THAT WITH YOU
AND THEY'VE HANDICAPPED YOUR
PRESENTATION TONIGHT.
BUT THAT SAID, I THINK I'M
GOING TO VOTE FOR IT.
I NOTE IN THE MEMO THAT YOU
RECEIVED FROM MR POWELL'S A
NUMBER OF POSITIVE THINGS WHICH
ANY NORMALLY INCENTIVIZED
ORGANIZATION WOULD DO.
LIGHTS ARE TURNED OFF AT
MIDNIGHT THERE ARE SHEELS SO
THEY DON'T SHINE UP INTO THE
SKY BUT SO THAT THE LIGHT
SHINES DOWN UNDER THE AREAS TO
BE ELIMINATED.
AND YOU SAID THAT THE AREAS
THAT AREN'T PART OF THE
PERIMETER ARE SMALLER LIGHTS
BUT THE BIG LIGHTS ARE BEING
CHANGED AND THAT'S GOING TO
HAVE AN EFFECT ON, YOU KNOW,
LESS UPWARD ILLUMINATION AND
PROBABLY REDUCE ELECTRICAL USE
ALL THESE GOOD THINGS AND YOUR
APPLICANT HAS TRIED TO
ACCOMMODATE THE REJECTION FROM
APRIL WITH THE DIFFERENT
PRESENTATION.
SO AND ONE OF THE CALLERS THE
COLORS THAT CAME IN ABOUT THE
LIGHT THE THREE THOUSAND K
HELPED ME FEEL MORE POSITIVE
ABOUT WHAT YOUR CLIENT'S BEING
REQUIRED TO DO.
IT'S ACTUALLY GOING TO BE
BENEFICIAL.
SO I THINK IT'S IT WOULD BE
EASIER.
YES.
FOR ME IF YOUR APPLICANT JUST
GOT ITS ACT TOGETHER ABOUT THE
COST AND THEY FAILED TO DO THAT
.
IT BLOWS MY MIND.
I THINK I'M STILL GOING TO DO
VOTE YES ON THIS.
GOING BACK TO THE REQUIREMENTS
WE HAD THE CASE OF A CHURCH
WHICH WAS GOING TO HAVE TO PUT
IN A LOT OF EAVES IN THE
ANALOGY I USED WAS SOME PLACES
ARE GREAT FOR ELECTRICAL
VEHICLE CHARGING LIKE APARTMENT
COMPLEXES, OTHER PLACES LIKE
FUNERAL HOME PARKING LOTS MAKE
NO SENSE FOR ANY PARKING.
NOBODY ATTENDING A FUNERAL IS
GOING TO CHARGE THEIR CAR
WHETHER THEY'RE AND IT WOULD BE
NICE IF THERE WERE A LITTLE BIT
OF FLEXIBILITY IN THE ORDINANCE
AND I THINK I'M UNDERSTANDING
YOUR CLIENT'S PROPOSAL TODAY IS
GIVING SOME OF THAT FLEXIBILITY
WITHOUT TOWING TOTALLY TO THE
LETTER OF THE ORDINANCE.
SO I THINK I WILL BE VOTING FOR
IT LIKE GREAT PRICE AND SAY THE
ANALOGY WITH THE EVVY
REQUIREMENT I TOTALLY
UNDERSTAND THAT.
YEAH, IT'S A NICE IF FOR
EXAMPLE WE HAD THOSE CHURCHES
COMING IN BUT LIGHT IS LIGHT,
RIGHT?
THE I DON'T CARE IF IT'S A
CHURCH OR OR SENIOR CITIZENS OR
A NURSERY.
RIGHT.
THE LIGHTS LIGHT AND IT MESSES
WITH THAT'S THE AUDIENCE IS
MESSING WITH NATURE.
YEAH THAT THE USE OF THE LIGHT
IT'S THE LIGHT AND SO THAT'S
WHY FOR ME HOW I DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN TWO UNDERSTOOD DAYS
THAT POINT TAKEN WE NOTE THE
USE OF WHERE THEY TURN THE
LIGHTS OFF AT CERTAIN HOURS
OF THE NIGHT SO THAT THEY ARE
COGNIZANT OF THOSE ASPECTS.
WHAT LIGHT DOES IN THE
ENVIRONMENT AND THE FACT IS
THEY ARE IMPROVING THE
SITUATION BY REPLACE ALL THE
LIGHTS IN THE ROOM WHICH ARE
THE BIGGEST LIGHTS IS A
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT.
SO WE'RE ACTUALLY BY APPROVING
THIS VARIANCE AND ALLOWING THE
PROPOSAL TO GO FORWARD.
WE'RE NOT ONLY GETTING ENCLOSED
GARAGES WHICH ARE GOING TO BE
BENEFICIAL TO THE SENIOR
CITIZENS THAT ARE RESIDENTS
OF THIS FACILITY BUT WE ARE
IMPROVING THE IMPACT THAT IT
HAS ON THE SURROUNDING
ENVIRONMENT BY REPLACING ALL
THE GREEN LIGHTS.
SO AS I'VE SAT HERE AND THOUGHT
ABOUT THIS, I'M ACTUALLY
BECOMING MORE POSITIVE TOWARDS
IT AND I WAS INITIALLY VERY
POSITIVE TOTALLY COMING FROM SO
WE CAN AND I AGREE THAT THIS
HAS A BENEFIT AND IT'S MAKING
THE SITUATION BETTER SO WE CAN
KEEP GETTING VOLUNTEERS TO KEEP
MAKING OUR JUDGMENT CALL WHAT'S
BETTER OR NOT OR WE CAN
INCENTIVIZE COUNCIL TO FIX THE
ORDINANCE.
SO WE HAVE TO DO THIS ONE SEEMS
LIKE IT'S A BUNCH OF SHORT TERM
FIXES THAT WE'RE GOING TO KEEP
DOING OVER AND OVER OR I YOU
KNOW, CITY COUNCIL THOUGHT
ABOUT THAT AND SAID THAT WE
DON'T THINK THAT'S A REASON TO
NOT DO THIS OR THEY DIDN'T
THINK ABOUT IT.
I'M GUESSING THEY THOUGHT ABOUT
IT.
I DON'T KNOW
.
AND FOR ME THIS IS CLOSE BUT
I'M STILL I'M NOT PERSUADED ON
IT SO I'M GOING TO GET I'M
GOING TO STICK NOW.
I PREPARED TO MAKE THE MOTION
AND I GET TO MAYBE
UNDERSTANDING PROCEDURE HERE A
LITTLE BIT IF THIS FIRST MOTION
IS NOT PASSED, DO WE WANT TO
ENTERTAIN DIFFERENT MOTION
WHERE WE SAY YOU HAVE TO BRING
YOUR ENTIRE SITE UP TO
CODE WITHIN TWO YEARS?
>> DO WE WANT TO DO THAT?
WELL, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
WITHOUT THAT.
BUT I WOULD ALSO SUPPORT ADDING
THAT WHY DON'T WE TAKE A VOTE
ON THIS CURRENT THEN THE MOTION
HAS IT'S BEEN A DISASTER THEN
WE'LL HAVE A DISCUSSION ABOUT
WHETHER TO DO A MODIFICATION TO
THAT.
WOULD THAT BE GOOD, GRACE?
BECAUSE YOU WERE THE ONE THAT
SUGGESTED WE SEE WE CAN OK, WHY
DON'T WE DO THAT THEN?
RIGHT.
MY PROBLEM WITH THAT IS I CAN
IT RIGHT.
UM I GOT I HAVE A SUGGESTION
THE POLICE ARE GOING TO BE OUT
OF ORDER.
WE RECEIVED A VARIANCE FOR A
PARTICULAR BUSINESS IN THAT
ARBOR SEVERAL YEARS AGO AND THE
CONDITION WAS THAT IT WOULD NOT
CARRY ON TO ANY FURTHER SITE
PLANS.
SO ANY FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO THE
SITE PLAN THE VARIANCE DOES
REPLY HMM, INTERESTING.
WELL I GUESS YEAH.
WE'RE GOING TO GO AHEAD AND
READ THE DEED YOU WANT TO READ
THE MOTION?
SURE.
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL OF ZONING, BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TO FIVE POINT THREE A
COLOR SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT TO
ALLOW THE DEVELOPER TO UPGRADE
THE OUTDOOR LIGHTING ONLY FOR
THE PORTION OF THE SITE THAT IS
BEING DEVELOPED IN THE
PERIMETER LIGHT POLES ON THE
CIRCULAR DRIVE AROUND THE
PROPERTY RATHER THAN THE ENTIRE
PARCEL THE SECOND SECOND
BECAUSE DENHA VOTING CHRISTINA
YES
GREECE YES.
MCDANIEL NO THEY'VE DIVIDED
DIVIDED YES.
AND I ALSO VOTE YES.
I NOTE THAT DARMA AND CHRIS ARE
ABSENT AND CANDICE HAS RECUSED
HERSELF.
THERE ARE ONLY FOUR VOTES IN
FAVOR SO THE VARIANCE REQUEST
YIELDS WHAT DO PEOPLE WHO WISH
TO DO YOU WOULD WISH TO
ENTERTAIN ANOTHER MOTION OR WE
DON'T I DON'T SEE A DIFFERENCE
IN THE VOTE.
THE DISCUSSION WE HAD ON THIS I
WOULD AGREE OK, I I THINK I WAS
AFTER WE'RE DONE.
OK, THANK YOU SIR.
THANK YOU AND GO GOOD.
CURRENTLY YOU'RE GETTING
JARNDYCE
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING TO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
WE HAVE NONE NO BUSINESS WE
HAVE NONE COMMUNICATIONS.
I THINK WE'VE ADDRESSED ALL THE
COMMUNICATION WE RECEIVED AS
PART OF EACH INDIVIDUAL
PETITION BUT WE CAN'T GET
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WISHES
TO SPEAK ON ANYTHING.
NOW'S THE TIME NO ONE'S HERE IN
PERSON BUT IF ANYONE'S
ACCESSING REMOTELY AND WISHES
TO ADDRESS THE BOARD PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE NOW OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE CALLERS.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
QUICKLY I JUST WANT TO SAY BIG
THANK YOU TO JOHN AND COURTNEY
THE TRAINING THAT WE HAD A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO I THOUGHT
WAS VERY WELL PREPARED, VERY
WELL DONE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MY FELLOW
BOARD MEMBERS FEEL BUT I
THOUGHT YOU GUYS DID A GREAT
JOB.
SO KUDOS TO YOU AND THANKS FOR
PUTTING ALL TOGETHER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH, AND THANKS.
WILL THERE BE A POWERPOINT
AVAILABLE IF I CAN SO THAT
POWERPOINT WAS PRESENTED TO ALL
OF YOU IF YOU'D LIKE.
YEAH YOU'LL GET THAT FIRST
THING TOMORROW MORNING.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE'S NO OTHER COMMENT I
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
I'LL MAKE THEM.
THANK YOU.
GREAT SUPPORT FROM TAD ON FAVOR
I SUPPOSE WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU